- The job step is another strategy
that Spring Batch provides to support re-usability.
A job step lets us nest a job within a step
and then execute that step from another job.
This is a little different then defining a flow
because instead of executing
the sequence of steps directly inside of the job
the job step will be executed as a separate job.
We're going to take a look at how we can nest a job
with a job step coming up.
In order to support us, I've created a billing job
that has a single invoice step
and we're going to incorporate that
as a nested job within our deliver package job.
So we're going to package the item,
execute our delivery flow and then as a separate job,
we will execute our billing job.
So lets take a quick look at our billing job
and you'll notice that the billing job has one step,
send to invoice.
And if we look a little bit above our billing job
you'll see that step.
It's simply going to output to the console
that we've invoiced the customer.
Now in order to nest the billing job within another job
we'll need to create a job step.
And job steps are defined as beans
and the bean is going to be of type step.
You'll find that building a job step is very similar
to building an actual step.
I'm going to name our method the nested billing job step
and then within the body of this method,
once again we're going to use the step builder factory.
So very similar to when we're creating a step.
Then we invoke the get method
and we provide a name for our job step.
In this case it's going to be nested billing job step.
And then from here it gets a little bit different.
So instead of using the start method
we're actually going to use a method job.
And this allows us to point to the job
that we would like to execute within this step.
In our case that will be our billing job
and then once we've defined our step
holding true to the builder pattern
we call the build method
and that causes our step object to be return
and declared as a bean within Spring's IOC container.
Okay, now we need to take our job step
and nest it within another job.
We mentioned that those will be done
within our delivery job.
So lets go to the deliver package job.
And after we execute our delivery flow,
we would like to then bill the customer.
So we can use the next transition
and then we're going to call our nested billing job step
and that's all it takes to nest one job within another.
We built the job step
and then within the job configuration of the job
that you would like to call the other
you specify the next transition
and call your job step.
Okay, so let's head over to the terminal
and we're going to run our delivery job.
All right, let's take a look.
You can see that we kicked into the delivery flow
here we're leaving the package at the door,
the customer isn't present and then you can see
that we start to execute our nested billing job step.
And the real important part here,
you'll notice within the console output,
it is executing our billing job as a separate job.
So if we looked into the metadata in the job repository
you're going to see this as a separate job execution.
So this is another option you have when you want
to achieve some re-usability within Spring Batch.
When you're deciding between an external flow
and a job step,
I would recommend leaning towards an external flow
because it's easier to manage
then chaining these jobs together.